Ticket 2. Create a new yaml file for deployment on either Render or Vercel based on the amazon ec2 workflow, but without the excess of logging into an instance and running the application once logged in via linux commands
Render 
https://render.com/docs/deploy-node-express-app


Vercel
https://vercel.com/martin-rombachs-projects 

- 401 error
solved through a vercel bearer token

? api returns html? does not behave like the api. 
link returns metrics about the api but not the api itself.
all urls return similar results. 
------it's likely the deployment is designed for frontend applications -----

- follow the docs, express deployment 
app complains there is no build property established.
when following dad's approach, he deployed 
an artifact into amazon ec2 and made configurations
based on that. you need to reverse engineer
this to a more basic one (perhaps through
looking back into the history) where things
are just deployed as is

- try git history 

- git history creates more confusion
you need a clear cut understanding of what should happen after npm test in your new deployment.
in the previous deployment, you turned the project into an artifact, zipped it,
uploaded it to amazon ec2, logged in live and deployed it 
(btw which left the instance open probably not best practice)

? so what do you want to do instead?
deploy to vercel using standard node / express commands that incorporate typescript in build/start 

adding npm start on the index files should just... 
run the deployment forever right? as if the deployment is a server??

- try the documentation examples, clone a copy
! vercel is for frontend apps only, not fit for purpose !

- options?
try to adapt the api project to the namecheap site,
seeing as that's how apis work anyway?

Namecheap support (having received the repo):
'It should be possible to deploy it on our shared hosting plans (portfolio has this in place).
Please note that root access is not provided with shared hosting, if the app requires root access, it can't be deployed.'

Namecheap link (seems to be php related)
https://www.namecheap.com/support/knowledgebase/article.aspx/9366/2194/errors-500-502-503-504-and-508-reasons-and-ways-of-fixing/

